---
date: 2022-09-7
title: Games that I like
---

# Colony Simulators

I really like colony simulators. The only thing with them is that they take
usually a lot of time (hours per run). Other than that, when played with the
right mindset, they can prove to be very fun and replayable.

## Dwarf Fortress
No words to describe Dwarf Fortress. It is simply awesome. You can do all sorts
of stuff and all the game simulates an incredible amount of stuff, giving a lot
of immersion. The only sad part is that currently it becomes slow pretty fast
due to running on a single thread and has a pretty poor user interface.
Hopefully the Steam version that is coming will fix these problems.

## Rimworld
Pretty fun overall, seems a better version of Dwarf Fortress in some points but
lacks on a lot of others. It has much less content and does not have multiple Z
layers, but its user interface and gameplay are much better than DF.

<!-- ## Oxygen Not Included -->

# Roguelikes

Roguelike games really amuse me with all of their replayability and gameplay
style. This section will not differentiate from *roguelike* and *roguelite*, and
games from both categories might be present in here.

## Slay the Spire
This game makes me so happy. I never stopped to play games such as hearthstone,
and simply ignored the existence of *Gwent* when playing *The Witcher*, but Slay
the Spire really caught my attention. It is very fun to play, and requires a
nice amount of strategy when planning builds, fighting or even choosing your
paths and making choices in events.

## Faster than Light (FTL)
FTL is simply awesome. It has a **Slay the Spire**-like map navigation,
containing a galaxy map in which you travel and face different events and also
has a realtime action combat between starships. It is really fun to battle
starships and repair yours during combat, while planning upgrades to your
starship on the long run.

## Noita
Noita is a very uncommon game, it features a roguelike perma-death mechanic, has
the awesome feature of "wand crafting" and is non-linear, you don't just have a
single goal or boss for the game, you can explore secret areas, go to parallel
worlds or kill secret bosses.

<!-- ## Caves of Qud -->

# Multiplayer Shooters

While I like nice and comfy indie games, most of my friends do not. So when I
play something with them, it usually ends up being something such as **CSGO**,
**Rainbow Six Siege** or **COD Warzone**. I personally find these games funny if
played casually, but usually they have pretty toxic playerbases.
